Vietnamese Declaration of Independence
Proclaimed by President Ho Chi Minh on September 2, 1945

All men are created equal. They are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.

This immortal statement was made in the Declaration of Independence of the United States of America in 1776. In a broader sense, this means: All the peoples on the earth are equal from birth, all the peoples have a right to live, to be happy and free.

The Declaration of the French Revolution made in 1791 on the Rights of Man and the Citizen also states: All men are born free and with equal rights, and must always remain free and have equal rights.

Nevertheless, for more than eighty years, the French imperialists, abusing the standard of Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity, have violated our Fatherland and oppressed our fellow citizens. They have acted contrary to the ideals of humanity and justice.

In the field of politics, they have deprived our people of every democratic liberty. They have enforced inhuman laws. To weaken our national solidarity, they have deliberately divided us into three different political regions. They have built more prisons than schools. They have killed our patriots. They have drowned our uprisings in rivers of blood.

We are convinced that the Allied nations, which at Quebec and elsewhere have acknowledged the principles of self-determination and equality of status will not refuse to acknowledge the independence of Vietnam.

A people who have courageously opposed French domination for more than eighty years, a people who have fought side by side with the Allies against the Fascists during these last years, such a people must be free and independent.

For these reasons, we, members of the Provisional Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, solemnly declare to the world that Vietnam has the right to be a free and independent country and in fact it is so already.

The entire Vietnamese people are determined to mobilize all their physical and mental strength, to sacrifice their lives and property in order to safeguard their independence and liberty.

Vietnam is independent. Vietnam shall be forever independent. The Vietnamese people pledge their honor to defend the independence of their country with all possible means.

The spirit of independence burns in every Vietnamese heart. It shall never be extinguished.

Independence is not given; it must be earned. Independent nations stand on their own strength and wisdom.

Vietnam shall remain independent, united, democratic, prosperous, and strong.

We call on all independent nations of the world to recognize the independence of Vietnam.

Let the world know: Vietnam is independent. Vietnam has always been independent. Vietnam will always be independent.
